Hi we within this lecture we going to design our first Apps user interface and there's an app we're
going to build something like this.
There is going to be an image and there's going to be a bottom.
If I click the button the image will change.
So we're going to build every simple app but you're going to get comfortable with the X gold while we're
doing this.
We're not doing this in order to learn about programming or swifts.
We're just doing this as an example to get comfortable with X code.
So I'm going to go to Google dot com and I'm going to get and download two images.
So I'm going to search for Metallica because that's my favorite bands.
You can't do it for your own band or you can just do it with your own picture or own images.
We have to just get two images to display in our app.
OK.
I recommend you do that with your own favorite band.
So if you don't have a favorite band just go with Metallica because they're very good.
So let's choose one of them and say Save image two downloads.
OK.
And you can actually use your own images in your own computer if you have one.
So I believe there is something wrong because I couldn't download this.
So maybe we can go for another image like that.
OK.
So let me try this one right click.
Say we need to download this and let's see if we managed to download it.
Yep.
This time this works.
And let me go back and find another one.
Let me try to download this and I believe it's done as well.
So let me open the downloads folder and you'll see the two images but we will need to rename them because
it's way too complicated for an image I'm going to just name them Metallica and the other one we'll
be Metallica too.
OK.
Right now I'm going to get this Jay Pags into my folder into my project and remember where we put them.
I said something about a stats folder right.
So in the left hand side you will see those assets if you click on those you will see something like
that this empty space.
So if you get your images you can just put them over here.
Just choose two images and drag and drop over here.
So right now these images are embedded in your projects and that's kind of cool right.
This is how you import these pictures and you will see something called 1 x 2 extra x in here.
Don't worry about those right now.
This is generally created for having different sizes different kind of images for different screen sizes.
OK.
So for right now if you're working with an eye for instance you will need a three X image and if you're
working for iPhone s e you will need that one X image.
And if you click on this app icon thing you will see the same thing.
This is where you place your icon app icon.
Okay logo of your app.
So you can see different sizes are required to put here.
And if you're a designer designing for an app with a photoshop or a sketch or Adobe Steve you can create
your app logos you can create your app icons in this sizes and you can just drag and drop them over
here.
And don't worry about those as all we're going to see how to do that later on.
And of course this is not a design course but this is rather an IOW development course.
I'm going to show you how to do that in Adobe X or sketch but I'm not going go into details because
I'm not a designer myself as well.
I'm just going to show you how to create very beautiful apps I'm just going to teach you how to code.
OK.
And this is the same thing.
So if you see one acts you can just provide some two acts and three acts or resolutions for your app
as well.
And as I said we're not going to worry about that right now we're just going to go to main that storyboard
and delete this helos we've label that we previously had because we don't need it.
Rather we need something to put our images to and for label we can't have a label as a text or as a
title for our app and for other purposes we need an image and we need that bottom.
Cape.
So you can drag and drop this pain as you see two anywhere and you can just hit this button or you can
hit shift command and Al in your keyboard to open this library because you're going to use this a lot.
So click on this plus about an hour shift command an and near your keyboard and you can search for objects
in the search pane or you can just scroll down to see different kinds of object different kinds of views
that you have here to drag and drop.
For example you can search for image and you will see something called Image view and that's exactly
what we want in our project.
So drag and drop the Image view on your app over here okay on your storyboard.
So we can't resize it in a way that we want like that.
OK so this is not showing any images right now.
Right.
So I'm going to fix that later on.
So if you click on this you will see the attribute Spain.
So we can choose some options over here like we can choose the image that you're displaying inside of
this image view.
So if you click on this image attributes you will see different kinds of options and Metallica and Metallica
to appearing over here.
And these are pre-built images in the X code.
So for example I'm going to go for Metallica and it will display the image for me.
And in here you will see something called contend mode.
You can see shoes as packed fit as packed feel you can't use scale to feel and you can adjust your picture
you can adjust your image and you can choose the best option for you.
OK.
Right now I'm going to go for a packed fit and that's it.
Actually that's how you display your image inside of an image view inside of your app and don't worry
we're going to see the details of this later on.
We're just doing this for example three reasons we're not learning how to create an app right now.
We're just practicing.
In order to get comfortable with X code.
So next we need a button.
Right.
We need to something to click on.
So when a user taps on this button then a user clicks on this button it will just change the picture.
As I said before that's our project.
So let me go over here and search for button and just choose one of those.
Actually you have to choose the bottom because these other things are related to bar items and we're
going to see what it is later on after you choose your button.
Make sure you make it a little bit bigger like this and put it into the middle.
As you can see the guidelines are appearing saying that it seemed to me though and go to the attributes
inspector in which you can choose the details of this them.
If I choose the image it will display the options for image if I choose the button it will display the
options for bottom.
So maybe we can change the name of this button like change.
Why change.
Because when we click on this button it will change the picture it will change the image right.
It will change this Metallica one to Metallica too.
So that's it.
That's our app.
And this looks very ugly actually.
So I'm going to go over and add a label to my app and this won't fix the ugliness but at least it will
look a little bit better in my view.
So let me make this label a little bit bigger.
OK.
Just choose and drag here.
I'm trying to put this on the middle of the screen and make this a little bit bigger as you can see
it's very easy to do that using x code and we can change the alignment from here.
We can change the tax.
Like my Metallica app or Metallica app whatever you want.
You can increase the phones you can decrease the font you can choose the color maybe you can play with
this to see how does it look like on your own app.
What are we going to learn about layouts are we going to learn about user interfaces more in-depth later
on.
Don't worry.
Right now I'm ready actually for my user interface but I'm going to do a lasting go over here to something
called Resolve auto layout issues.
So does kind of destroy angler button over here and you will see you cannot click on anything in order
to click on anything you should click over here to view.
OK so you can choose the view over here or you can just click on this blank screen and then you can
choose one of those options.
So I'm going to go for this reset suggests that the constraints on the bottom.
OK.
When I do that it will add some little blue lines over here.
These are called constraints and we use constraints to constrain our viewing to a specific order.
So they will appear in the right place in the right time in the right phone.
OK.
So we use them to have the same view in the iPhone X are as in the iPhone as eat.
So for right now let's let's run our code in the simulator because we're going to learn about constraints
a lot later on in the layout section.
And as you can see my app looks good right.
So I have what I need here I have my title I have my image I have my change by them of course if I click
on this change by then nothing will happen because we didn't write any code regarding to it.
We're going to take care of that in the next lecture and we are going to see how to change our image
using code because right now we can only manually change it in the attribute section we don't want that.
We want to to have a code in which user can change the picture whenever they want.